---
layout: post
title:  Why do I not enjoy coding anymore
date:   2019-10-24
categories: Research
tags: experience, life-rantings, research
author: Aarti
description: But I DO!

---

Since I began my thesis-based master’s program, for some reason, my urge to code has decreased significantly. I am not sure why that happened. Hence, I tried to understand the reasons behind that.

When I started my grad school the first course which I took was Formal verification and analysis. While studying for the course, I realized a couple of things - I had never really considered doing a theoretical Ph.D. Maths had always been problem-solving and I  assumed before joining my Masters that it is a part of every sort of research which can be conducted.  

Only after joining my research lab I understood that maths and theoretical thinking is not admired by all. There are two separate realms that exist, experimental and theoretical. It took me almost a  year to really understand the obvious.

From my general observation,  the one thing I was quite sure after a few months into my thesis was that I am not interested in purely experimental research. I did not enjoy it but ofc that does not mean that it is not important but just that it was not fulfilling for me.

So it is not that  I don’t enjoy coding anymore, but the fact is more about what am I coding for?
The motive should be clear and more interesting. Engineering an entire system is not interesting if I don’t know what to expect from it.

My first research assignment was to link MongoDB with nodejs to build a filesystem. It was not something that interested me. It’s only now that I realize, it’s the incremental things which should be satisfactory than the results. If the incremental changes you are working on are not enjoybale this means that the work you are doing is not interesting for you specifically. It’s not that doing basic connectivity was tough, the fact that why was I doing it was very unclear and if my problem statement or at least my general area is not clear I get quite flustered. This might not be the case with everyone because every person is different.

Hence, I realize that, if small discoveries don’t excite you, don’t do it. Or do it, but try finding something where every small detail makes you happy and content. For me, it was verification specifically. When I first was exposed to the word, none of the verification words made sense to me. Another problem which I had was that I always have a tendency to think big than incrementally. However, after being determined in order to understand the state-of-the-art verification papers, every small concept was interesting for me. This is when I realized that I genuinely enjoy the verification of scalable systems from depth. In that sense when I coded in order to understand some underlying concept or behaviour it was appropriately fun for me.

Moral: It’s not coding which does not interest me, it’s what am I coding that interests me. Hence, a lesson that I learned after almost 1.2 years is that I like to be actively interested in the application and my research and writing code is not the real question here.
