---
layout: post
title: SPLASH '19'
date:   2019-10-28
categories: Research, Grad-life, Conferences
tags: experience, research
author: Aarti
description: Just some memories and lessons from SPLASH.

---

I got a wonderful opportunity to attend SPLASH’19, all thanks to the student volunteering selection and PLMW (Programming Languages Mentoring Workshop), which provided me with enough funds to cover my travel, accommodation, and registration.

A side note before a brief explanation about SPLASH’19 PLMW and SV before diving into more concrete details. PLMW is a workshop organized in almost all PL conferences designed for helping upper-year undergrads and just starting grad students. Funding is based on a selective procedure, where they fully fund the travel, accommodation, and registration for the conference. It is a really awesome way to get students involved without external fundings and from remote places who do not usually get the opportunity to attend the conferences. Student volunteering covers only your registration costs, however, it is very interesting to be an SV since it gives you the opportunity to understand the different layers of how a conference is organized (especially if you intend to be the one choosing the SVs, it is important to be one someday).

Day 1 - The chill day
Starting from the first days, it is the first few days which consist of workshops and tutorials, it is extremely important to find the ones which interest you. Attending all the workshops and tutorials can be pretty useless and tedious. I say this from the perspective of a starting graduate student. I chose to attend a workshop/tutorial by Frank McSherry on differential data-flow. It was a really good choice I’d say. He explained differential data-flow from its basics and it was a wonderful opportunity to be exposed to the area. Though I feel I should be honest here, it was completely unplanned from my side to attend this since I was more attracted to an adversarial compilation talk. However, since, I was attending the conference with a friend of mine, we both decided to split and he attended the adversarial talk and I attended the differential data-flow and we exchanged the notes later. Hence, it’s good to split up with friends when attending workshops or tutorials. Since I was quite satisfied with the day, I spent the rest of the day doing some student volunteer duties. I realized that I have a limited brain capacity to take things in. Once I am satisfied with things, I am ok with not doing more.
On the same day, I also got a really amazing opportunity to chat with Alex Summers and the conversation was pretty interesting (at least for me) and this was another level of satisfaction for me.

Day 2- PLMW (Programming Languages Mentoring Workshop)
Since I was being funded by the PLMW, it was important for me to attend the mentoring workshop (no kidding) and I particularly found some talks pretty good. Sometimes, even if you know the stuff, when someone is able to provide a good explanation for the same, it is pretty interesting to hear. There was one lesson for me - “Everyone always appreciates a good explanation for what something one already knows”. There were some particularly good speakers on the stand during the PLMW. The ones which I particularly enjoyed and which will probably leave a mark are:
The talk by Yannis was quite encouraging and real. He pointed out the exact things which make us newbies realize that the world is not fair and everyone knows that, but there are ways to overcome that since the community overall is quite strong. After this talk, I realized that choosing to do research is not to become a part of your lab, or your school, it’s about becoming a part of the entire community out there. The community is working towards the greater good by choosing to do research with their life. There will always be noise in such things, but the goal is to move past it and learn to deal with it.  
The talk by Derek from MPI was really good too. He gave a really good introduction to writing coherent and flowy papers. Even if you are aware of these things it is always enjoyable to hear a systematic and interesting explanation of topics. His talk was the epitome of clarity for me.
The next talk by John Hughes was one of the most fun talks. His energy and enthusiasm was something quite amazing to me. It made me realize that, no matter what anyone thinks or says, having that level of enthusiasm for research is extremely important. I also got a chance to have a long talk with him over dinner, which was absolutely amazing. How often do you get to have a casual conversation with the pioneers of the field where they tell you stories about the people whose books you’ve been reading. It was one of the most fun dinners we (me and my friend) had.
Finally, probably the most intimate talk of the session was the one by Kenny Foner, which was the one talk where I’m sure everyone was able to connect to. A quote from his talk - “ Nobody is actually ‘lazy’”. This is something I don’t have the words to explain yet I felt the talk. It was absolutely …. (sorry, no words here).

These were some of the talks which I particularly enjoyed. The rest of all talks were pretty great too but I can’t write about every talk here.

Day - 3 (OOPSLA - Day 1)
This was the first day for OOPSLA, and it started with a keynote lecture by Matt Might. The keynote was really good. Matt Might, I personally thought was one of the best speakers I have ever attended the talk to.  However, I was quite busy the entire day since I had the volunteer duty of passing around the mike for the rest of the day (not that boring as it sounds). However, thanks to the great people allowing us the volunteer duties, I was able to choose the talks I wanted to volunteer for. I volunteered for the modular verification section of OOPSLA and interestingly all the talks were pretty good. Again, I am genuinely interested in this topic and hence, I particularly liked the session. This was probably the first time in a conference I’d attended an entire section. I have a very bad habit of hopping from room to room every single minute (literally). I change sessions more than I change my clothes (yes, true).
The lunch that followed the session was a bomb since there were so so many people. After the standard Greek food (bread, cheese, olives, and olive oil - every day for vegetarians :D) I volunteered/attended the talks for the Machine Learning and the formalization sessions. Machine Learning was quite interesting because of the undefined scope. At times I had to go back and remember how exactly the talks are connected to ML. However, the presentation on DUET (verification of fairness for ML) was really good. Again, others were good too but I point out the things which overlap with my personal interests. Finally, again, volunteering for the Formalisation session, I was completely drained and my friend Akshay and I finally decided to leave and go have some ice-cream. We went to the Acropolis market for dinner. A really notable thing happened in the Acropolis market - two women forced us to take three flowers and when we refused they said it’s free and put the flowers in our hands. However, the moment we kept the flowers in our bag, they asked us for 10 euros (hmmm…..). Like idiots, we gave 1.5 euros after which she asked for her flowers back and didn’t even return our 1.5 euros :(. But, the next day we were more prepared for such things and were more firm (comparatively).


Day 4 (OOPSLA - Day 2)

I was quite drained from the start for this day. However, I did attend a couple of sessions. I did not have any volunteering duties, hence, I was relatively more free to roam about in the day. I was mostly in the lobby during the entire day, having small conversations with people.
There was a talk from UBC profs. (my school) and that is the only talk I remember attending. The essay talk was pretty good and quite different from the other talks that I had attended in the past couple of days.
The highlight of the day was when Akshay and I went shopping to Monastiraki Flea Market. I ended up buying an authentic greek musical instrument called Tzouras. Just for some context, I have been playing guitar for a little over 12 years now and I instantly fell in love with the handcrafted Tzouras. It was a bit expensive but eh it was completely worth it. I have attached a small clip in the end with the music I recorded on the same day.
The day is still yet to end, since, we had a Google reception at Hilton for dinner. We went there and it was pretty much the same as the SPLASH receptions - the view was amazing though. I wish they had served some vegetarian food too.

Day 5 (OOPSLA Day -3)

I was more concerned about exploring Greece since I was leaving the next day. So apart from my volunteer duties, I did not attend any other talks.  I attended the Model checking session and it was quite different from the other sessions since there were people literally talking in the middle of the talks. This was a first for me since I had never really seen people talk when someone is presenting. It was a little awkward but well the session ended on a good note so that was fun.  
I left the area around 4 with my friend since we wanted to roam around a little and we went to the Acropolis museum. However, we ended up paying 10 euros instead of 5 euros each for the ticket (Tip: before tapping always ask for a student discount :/). Finally, we ended the day with a really nice dinner in an authentic Greek restaurant.

Disclaimer: These are solely my views and opinions and are not meant to hurt anyone in any way.
