---
layout: post
title: History and Research
date:   2019-10-30
categories: Research
tags: experience, research
author: Aarti
description: Thoughts on the importance of knowing our history in research.

---
The necessity of being aware of your art’s history is extremely important. I never quite understood this statement until I understood it’s importance. Recently, I read a book by Stephan Wolfram called Ideamakers. I did not expect to enjoy the book compared to as I really did. It was a personal perspective essay about different scientists whom Wolfram had the opportunity of interacting closely with. Reading about the scientists and their habits, was so enjoyable. It is after this book that I decided to delve a little more into the history of scientists and science.


The reason I enjoyed Idea makers was that there were multiple subconscious traits of mine which I could relate to in the personalities of those folks. It helped me become more self-aware about myself. In addition to this, I also learned so much, because I realized I’m not the first one to be facing certain problems. Most of them have been experienced by people before and reading about history and how they tackled them gave me multiple directions to work on.

At some point, I was extremely possessive and refused to use readymade solutions in front of me. Whenever I had to do something new (new for me), I wanted to be to discover it and find a way out of it. However, slowly I realized that sometimes borrowing solutions does not hurt. The world is a very evolved place currently and it has a lot of more potential to evolve. I am still yet to understand the solutions that have been tried and why haven’t they worked and in order to do so is important to be very aware of the history.

Another problem which can arise here is, how much history do you need to consume before being able to find interesting insights? My observation is that consuming history in a passive sense might or might not be useful. However, to ensure that I get something out of it, every time I read a book about the origin of science or on the origin of Greek philosophy, I try to relate everything with my present self. However, sometimes, it is very difficult to relate without being aware of the context when that vital piece of the act was done years back. That is the reason for trying to adapt or relating it to something in my current life always helps me progress. It should be a balance between the two being a passive absorber and an active user.

If you read Plato’s work, he usually set a scenario, with Socrates as one of the central characters and the knowledge imparted was through a general conversation between a group of people. This not only helps us understand the context but also helps us see different perspectives.

History helped me realize that there is never a binary answer. It’s all about looking at the same thing from different angles and then deciding based on that. Nothing is all positive or negative but being aware is what matters.
