---
layout: post
title: Aarti's vacation that never happened in 2020
date:   2020-09-20
categories:
tags: experience
author: Aarti
description: The world is ending, there isn’t enough motivation to keep things going.

 --And this is the reason a vacation is an absolute necessity. But since I couldn’t have one I decided to write about it for closure.

---




<!--more-->
The world is ending, there isn’t enough motivation to keep things going.

 --And this is the reason a vacation is an absolute necessity. But since I couldn’t have one I decided to write about it for closure.



Jan 2020 is the month I started planning my vacation away from work, away from the city I work, away from the country I work. Little did I know, it is all going to end in oblivion.

My vacation would have started from me visiting India and spending two weeks in a remote village in the Himalayas (that my friend keeps mentioning all the time to make me jelly) that has no electricity.
This would mean no internet, which would mean no phone, which would mean no mails, which would mean… FREEDOM | PEACE.

I assume that after returning from the Himalayas back to my home in Mumbai I would have become a more “Zen” human though thinking about it now… I am already ZEN yo.
I would have probably spent time lying around in my room without worrying about food since my mom would be cooking for me the most delicious Indian cuisines that exist. One can visit the most sought Indian restaurants in the *world* and yet no food tastes like my home food. The restaurant Indian food is all bit too *extra* for my taste, you know?
I’d have invited my jamming buds to my place and we would have played and discussed music while enjoying hot delicious meals ( I cannot stress it enough, food is life, I love food.)
I’d have met my best friends who I have not seen in one whole year and one in two years   (:’()) to discuss how perfect we are in this imperfect little world.
I’d have met my guitar teacher so that he can pass sarcastic comments at my playing and say “You are all sold out to tech” to which I would then try and explain but I am not.
I’d have done… a billion other things and met all my peeps.
However, obviously this cannot last forever so fast forward to 4 weeks later.

I’d now return back to North America to spend time with my sister and we would have probably traveled to some cool places (unplanned). The things I and my *AWESOME* sister would have done is something I cannot really explain in words. Oh my! :”(

Fast forward another two weeks, and now I’d return to Canada from my sister’s place in the states and visit Montreal to visit a friend. We’d go to our favourite Pizza place (I have never had the pizza that I’ve had in Montreal ever in my life at any other place) and continue the list of things I want to do because of the technical difficulties we experienced last time when I was in Montreal (Hmph).

Fast forward another two weeks, now I’d get ready to move to Europe for my internship. However, before starting my internship my friend (who would also be starting their internship in Europe) and I would have spent time exploring Prague (this is where Kafka is from :(), and perhaps other places (you know... the standard “Europe tours”) and have some elitist artsy talks like we totally understand art.

Fast forward another two weeks and now I’d finally be all ready to move to Spain to start my internship and begin working on my project.

Fine vacation plans.
