---
layout: post
title: How did I decide to change my research field after my masters?
date:   2020-09-06
categories:
tags: experience
author: Aarti
description:

---
I spent most of my masters’ working on systems stuff where I mostly worked on stuff related to showing new kinds of attacks on systems (it is pretty [cool stuff!](https://open.library.ubc.ca/cIRcle/collections/ubctheses/24/items/1.0392651) ).
However, during my master’s  I had one simple question that I was trying to answer: *what is the thing that causes the most dopamine release within me when I am doing research?*

The reason I felt that question was very important for me to answer before I began my PhD because it is just not research, it is a bunch of things clubbed together (you can totally read about what research is in more detail in Nielson’s blog post since his thought process resonates the most with mine). In brief computer science research involves reading and writing a bunch of papers, discussions with humans, thinking about ideas, and implementing the ideas.
I saw the core crux of my field in two different ways, building and reasoning about systems and maths.

As I mentioned earlier my research mostly was concerned with finding new kinds of attacks on a category of systems designed by other researchers in the field. There were multiple things that I had to do to reach the problem statement itself since unlike most master’s students I was not served a concrete problem statement in my hands. One thing that experience made me realize was that finding the right problem statements to work on is equally as important as solving the problem. I feel that I was lucky enough to have this experience earlier in my life than most incoming grad students (optimistic human that I am).

The main parts that my research included were 1) identifying a gap that lies in the intersection of three different areas: system, machine learning, and security 2) building the *correct* abstraction such that it helps me reason about these practical systems mathematically 3) building a tool with the abstraction that automatically synthesizes the attacks 4) obviously writing about it.
During these steps, I realized the part that gave me immense pleasure was the part where I connected the system that was right in front of my eyes to the abstraction that I created and thought about.
This is when I realized that I want to look at things around me and build formal models for the same. This was obviously still a very broad area and hence the next set of questions that I had to answer for myself were
*What mathematical technique to build formal models?*
*Also, formal models for what?*

When I was searching for answers to these questions I was attending SPLASH’19 in Athens, Greece, and happened to have conversations with some programming language researchers where I asked them these questions (obviously in an indirect way and pertaining to them rather than me). It was then when I realized that having a security background might help me in narrowing down a couple of areas.
I attended two more conferences during that time where I happened to meet people who work at the intersection of programming language research and security which further helped me narrow down my area of interest.

After attending the conferences I had a more concrete idea of what perhaps I can and should apply for during my Ph.D. application.

The interesting bit here is that usually the students are not expected to know their exact research topic however, personally I feel that doing research before Ph.D. and exploring different areas helps one get perspective about what bit about the research process THEY really like.
It’s very easy to think that I like something because perhaps of my conditioning and the environment I’d done my undergraduate degree in.
However, understanding what bit is interesting in my research will make me get up every day excited and not consider it as work is what I am aiming for especially because of my *easy-going personality*.

After understanding this I tried finding people 1) who genuinely like research; this is an important one since working with people who research for the sake of research are super boring to work with and make the conversations painful 2) who can work with me and give me enough space and yet help me when I want 3) have money (materialism is important); again this was very important for me since I don’t want to spend my mental space during my Ph.D. thinking about how to arrange funds.

After finding such people to work with I decided to shift to programming languages (PL) and architecture security research which is a slightly interesting leap since I did not have much background in either of those fields (architecture and PL). However, the important thing to realize here is that background can be easily built in a couple of months but the art of doing and conducting research is more important which involves many more meta things (which I will write about later depending on my mood).


So the point is I changed my field to an area that allows me to think and work on things every day that causes dopamine release after I am done with it.
Obviously there are some parts of research that I do not enjoy because of the labor effort I have to put in but I’m happy doing it so long I am spending my maximum time doing things I like.


There was some bad advice (for me at least ) I did receive from some people which I ignored where people said that you can very easily change your fields after Ph.D so don’t do it now and finish your PhD and you can do whatever you want. Honestly, I am a very impatient human and I need to do what I want **now** and not wait till *x* years to do the thing that I like.

In summary, the things that helped me in taking this decision were: understanding what parts of research do I really enjoy, what problems are “cool” (very subjective definition based on a person’s personality I guess) for me to work on every day and will my research be like that one paper sitting silently in the deck of papers that no one ever reads or a paper that genuinely helps incoming graduate students understand the area even better since my own personal goal is to convey knowledge in a way such that anyone who reads my work can understand it and learn from it instead of breaking their head.

Peace. 
