---
layout: post
title: Why do I think being raised in India is a privilege? 
date:   2021-03-26
categories:
tags: Experience, India
author: Aarti
description: I am realising it after 25 years of existance
---

<!--more-->

The reason I think that being raised in a country like India offers experiences that 
I would have otherwise never got in North America. 
Don't get me wrong, I know for a fact that being raised in North America has its own 
sets of perks such as good schools, affinity for research and perhaps many other things. 

However, being raised in a country like India I feel in general makes humans very 
accepting and welcoming.
In general, if you talk to humans on streets they will talk to you in a way that makes 
you feel at home. 
Everything is obviously not this breezy, there is of course a bad side to this too, 
however, I am not much interested in discussing the bad side of it today, maybe some day. 

Being raised in Mumbai which is considered as one of the hippest and coolest cities in India
for multiple reason; some being the diversity, people from all over India migrate to Mumbai 
because of the opportunities that it offers. 
Why is that interesting? -- Well, India is a country that is very diverse, almost every state 
and sometimes city has its own language, its own culture and its own set of religions and gods. 
Now imagine a city with people raised according to different conditionings and standards. 
This is the reason I think I love Mumbai or Bombay. 

Hence, visiting a different city in India offers these rich set of experiences that I cannot 
explain. 
It is so much fun, understanding the food, clothes, humans and other things in India. 

Another reason I have really started appreciating India is because of the food and the costs. 
In North America even the simplest meal is around 20$. I mean it literally does not make sense to 
me as to why is food so expensive here?
In India we get some of the best and the most delicious meals for Rs 50 which is still less 
than 1 canadian dollar. 
Again, I repeat there are certain things about North America that I really appreciate that I 
could not find in India but this post is about how I learned to appreciate India. 

Fin. 














