---
layout: post
title: Why am I such an amazing cook?
date:   2021-03-27
categories:
tags: Life, Experience
author: Aarti
description: This time I am not surprised. I have always know this. 
---

<!--more-->

Ever since I was a kid, the one thing that I have truly enjoyed in my life 
is food. 

But I am a very choosy human being in general and the same goes for food. 

Something as simple as a Vada Pav has to have the correct flavourings otherwise
I *will not* be happy. 

When I was a kid I would observe my mom cooking in the kitchen. 
She is the most efficient and blessed human being in this planet Earth that I have ever come 
across. 
I literally don't think there is anyone more powerful than my mom. 

Anyway, I observed her cook the most delicious meals at 5 am in the morning for our school
and then by 7 she would be ready for her work. 

That is where I learned the art of efficiency during cooking from. 

However, I really was and have always been very very passionate about cooking and eating. 
I started trying out different things such as poha and upma by grade 7 if I recall correctly. 

I would make pakodas or fritters (potato, onion, chilli and everything else) and the best bit 
is I found ways to make these tastier AND in less time that is. 

Instead of directly putting chickpea flour covered potato in oil, I would first boil the potatoes 
and then put them in chicpea flour paste. This significantly reduced the cooking time. 

Even my mom is impressed with the things and tricks I pull off while cooking. 

The main reason is that I connect with food and its ingredients in a way that I cannot explain. 
I never measure quantities, I put everything based on essence and scents of different food items. 

I think if I were not doing a PhD I would have definitely been a chef but a chef that does not clean...

I think the main reason I decided to not become a chef is because of the mess my fancy ass food creates. 
The food is worth it, cleaning it is not worth me. 

Maybe someday when I have enough money and have a personal clearner who follows me everwhere to clean 
up my messes (see what I did there?) I can consider becoming a chef. 
























