---
layout: post
title: Hindustani classical music 
date:   2021-07-03
categories:
tags: Life, 2021, India
author: Aarti
description: I have my first exam in two weeks
---

<!--more-->

So this time when I returned to India, I was feeling a bit too 
connected to India, probably because I have not visited India in 
2 years. 

Anyway, so to feel that connection, I decided to start learning
singing pure Hindustani classical music. 

It was interesting that I ended up very quickly and without effort 
finding a teacher who is world renowned and has learned from world's 
best musicians. 

Now I am learning how to sing pure classical music, the diffeerence is 
in pure classsical music we sing notes and their different combinations 
rather than the song itself. 

I am also entering a competition where the first round is in Kolkata and the 
second round is in Russia. 

I am very excited. 

I think music also helps me do my research better. 

The main reason is this is a very powerful sort of music. 
It has direct affect on a human's existance because of the 
way the notes are arranged. 

An interesting bit about this is that every tune (or raga as called in Hindustani classical music)
has a specific time of the day it has to be sung. 

This is because this music has the power to calm, lift or change anyone's mood within minutes. 

Also, this is one of the oldest forms of music and the amount of research that has been done in 
this area is immense. 

I think I am most glad about finding my music teacher. Her voice is ... just... 




Fin. 










