---
layout: post
title: How to handle external triggers?
date:   2021-07-13
categories: life, experience
tags: 
author: Aarti
description: This has been extremely helpful for me for the past one year. 
---

<!--more-->

Due to the pandemic and more online communications as opposed to 
in person communications, I started noticing a lot of things within 
myself that previously I had not noticed. 

The first was that small things from others on social media or other 
places would trigger me and invoke an emotional reaction. 

I think this was happening mostly because: 1) I was spending most of 
my time with myself and, 2) I have not really used a lot of social media 
before, i am more of a chat in person sort of human. 

The way i learned to deal with these triggers was 
1. I first realised it is nothing to do with others but it is more about me. 
2. I understood the trigger, went through the emotional reaction period, went and 
fixed the thing within me that was invoking it so it does not happen again. 

Now these two steps might ideally seem very trivial but they require a lot 
of mental, physical and emotional effort from a human. 

As I went and worked on each of my triggers more and more, I started 
getting better at understanding myself and how I operate in general. 

Usually, the triggers are somehow connected to some issues or traumas that 
we might have faced earlier that we are not aware of. 

Once we learn to relate the triggers to the underlying issues, we can 
very easily fix ourselves. 

Sometimes, other humans do this deliberately to invoke a reaction since 
some humans indeed enjoy getting emotional responses from other humans. 
I am not particularly a fan of such humans. 

However, at the end of the day, I see this as a helpful guide to help 
us understand ourselves.

Lesson: Don't run away from triggers but instead go inside, and fix your 
issues so that they are not triggers anymore. 



Fin. 

---









