---
layout: post
title: Kamboucha
date:   2021-03-25
categories:
tags: Experience, Food
author: Aarti
description: I have a new love (surprise surprise)
---

<!--more-->

Three days back was yet another normal day with normal stuff. 
Well whatever normal means for a human that changes the definition of 
normal every other minute. 

I was sitting on my couch which is also the spot where I meditate, cry, 
eat, drink and ocassionally sleep, interestingly I was doing none of these 
activities at that point. I was going through random food items to order 
in from at Doordash. 

That is when after living in Canada for three years, I finally decided to 
try out the Kamboucha thingy. I think I am glad that I did. 
The interesting bit is that Kamboucha is actually a healthy drink, so obviously
the first thing that I wanted to know was the sugar content in the drink. 
I mean irrespective of what other ingredients are present in my personal belief 
I do not consider a drink with sugar healthy. 

A mild digression here, North America and their sugar consumption shocks me. 
In my initial days here, I would literally buy these expensive juices that had 
0 added sugar written on the front of their boxes. 
On consumption I could literally only feel diabetes. 

That is when I realised they have this other notion of sugar or fake sugar such 
as Splenda whichh they don't consider sugar. I remember studying in high school the 
formalae of sacchirides but it was interesting to note that having three packets of 
splenda is fine here because it is not "sugar". Unfortunately for me and my body it was 
still sugar and I had to stop drinking these juices. The point here is I am very skeptical 
of any products that I buy from North America anymore.  

Going back to Kamboucha, now that I have explained my skepticism revolving around 
North America and their sell messages which do not at any scale resonate with the actual 
product for me I had to dig a little deeper to understand Kamboucha. 
That is when i decided to order one that had the lowest amount of sugar amongst all the ones 
that I noted. 
And bam it was love at first sip. 

Now I feel like this drink was invented for Aarti, it is just perfect. 
I mean won't lie I would have preferred if it was 0 sugar but oh my, does that mild
amount sugar add to the entire flavouring of this drink makes me want to take yet another sip 
and another and another until the bottle is empty. 
The bit about Kamboucha is that it has this strong mixture of flavours and they just blend in so 
well and the fermentation bit just is like icing on the cake and the mildy cool Kamboucha is like 
the cherry on that icing on the cake. 


Since that day, everyday I go out and buy myself a Kamboucha worth 7$ despite having an income 
that does not allow me to afford that. 
I am not sure how long the love is going to last but for now, it's Kamboucha baby. 

Fin. 
























