---
layout: post
title: Why did I chose Vancouver for my grad school and not Tokyo?
date:   2021-04-06
categories:
tags: Life, Experience, Deep thoughts, Food
author: Aarti
description: This a mind boggling question because Japan is the place that I love the most, always have, always will. 
---

<!--more-->

Japan has always been one of my fav places in the world, even before 
I visited it. 

# The reasons are multiple 

1. Tokyo has an affinity to attract some of the top musicians in the world; some 
of the top guitarists, pianists frequently play live in Tokyo!
2. Shinkansen
3. The maidu cafe
4. Food -- To be fair I am a vegetarian so I could not really try anything but 
I enjoyed looking at my friends eat.
5. Shrines, meiji and what not
6. Overall Japanese culture
7. Sakura hira hira aaaaaa

The obvious expectation from the list would have been Manga and Anime?
Well, I do watch that it's just that I *do not* consider that as a reason for 
me liking Japan because the other reasons outweigh this one. 

During my bachelors I had the opportunity to stay and live in Japan for a while
and experience that life. 
It was (nah is) literally best days of my life so far. 

I am not sure if anything else can ever beat that ever. And this time I am 
not even exaggerating. I am under-exaggerating (if that is a thing really?)

So the obvious thought for me was, doing a masters/PhD or wtv it is I wanted
to do back then in Uni of Tokyo? 
So I will be honest I spoke to people from Uni of Tokyo and also spoke to 
a bunch of uni students when I was in Tokyo. 

However, the biggest hurdle for me was, the language. 
I did start learning Kataka and Hiragani and I think it is doable, I could 
have made some decent progress. 

But I realised for me communicating with general humans is very important, 
since I cannot sit and do only one thing at a time. 

Given my infinite interests in the world, a language barrier that too at 22 years 
of age seemed like a turn down for me. 


So I knew deep in my heart that Tokyo is not the place where I pursue my 
post graduation. 


The next bit in my head was, which country/city can give me some of Tokyo 
vibes AND has humans that speak English. 

And that is how I decided to come to Vancouver. 

OK BYE. 
Don't feel like explaining more now. 

Fin. 














