---
layout: post
title: What do I want?
date:   2021-06-25
categories:
tags: Life, 2021
author: Aarti
description: Yeah 
---

<!--more-->


For the past one year, I have been working a lot. 
I had this thing in my head where I wanted to learn 
everything in the world. 

There was an utter madness to it that words can not 
really express. 

I think I destroyed myself in that process. 

To learn everything and when I say everything, I mean
everything. 
The reason was not for me, I think I wanted to create
something, create something that helps make world a better place. 

Going back to my general starting sentence, ever since I was a kid, 
I have felt that I am meant to create something that changes the course 
of existance for humankind. 

Year after year I would always say these statements to my closest friends, 
however, the question always remained what?
Despite that I always followed my intutition and have mostly gotten what I 
wanted but to be honest, i never knew what I wanted. 

I think I finally do. 

To create what I am meant to create, the three important things that I need right 
now are:
1. Time without much interference from outside humans 
2. Probably a good machine and equipment that is needed for computer science research 
very easily 
3. Some good humans to work with. 
4. Towards the end of my PhD I think I would like to have good content and research 
material with humans out there.  
5. Finally I think I have a idea which ideally would have two bits to it:
good technical stuff and work environment and job opportunites for EVERYONE even the 
homeless so that they have stuff to do in some way. 
It should not matter if they have an education or not. 
I think this is supposed to be my contribution to the world. 
6. Most important: I want my health to go back to how it was before these past two years.





Fin. 










