---
layout: post
title: Interesting year!
date:   2021-03-18
categories:
tags: Life, Aarti, Experience
author: Aarti
description: The most amazing and insightful year of my life so far
---

<!--more-->

There are times in life when the days one thinks were the most painful 
and the darkest are the ones that end up teaching the most. 
The main ingredient however to learn the most out of everything is being 
conscious of every thing that one is feeling and observing. 
 

For me this experience began three weeks before my masters defense. 
I know exactly what was my trigger was, however, ideally that trigger 
should *not* have been a trigger. 
When minute things start acting as triggers its time to realise that 
there is really something going and requires work. 

Anyway, after that activation everything was downhill for me atleast in a 
materialistic sense. 
I had my masters defense which now when I think about objectively had gone 
quite well. 
I had given a great presentation and answered every question that the committee
brought up in front of me. 
However, after my defense I felt an emptiness that words cannot express. 
I think I wanted something more after my defense however I could not really
understand what it was that I felt or thought was missing. 

This is when I knew something was off, the date was 26th July, 2020 and that is 
when EVERYTHING began. 

There are too many details that I don't think I am capable of expressing in a post. 

However, after that point every small thing was a trigger for me from voice of a human 
to a poor little insect on my window. 
Everything was as annoying as it could get. 

However, the more I expressed my annoyance the worse or better it got?

I learned more about myself in these 8 months than my 25 years of existance. 

Some things I learned after almost two terms in my PhD:
1. The reasons behind doing a PhD ofc were freedom and love but I realise that I needed
some time to do nothing here. 

2. Another thing is that I really enjoy the things that I do and work on which allows me 
to explore unconditionally in any/all directions that I want. 

3. The fact that I get to engage with such amazing and sorted human beings also truly feels
amazing. 

4. Best bit is I get a lot of time just to work on my blogs and pursue my side hobbies!

Overall I would give PhD: 9.8/13.4 rating. 




