---
layout: post
title: Why am I so surprisingly excited about visiting India this time?
date:   2021-03-25
categories:
tags: Experience, Research
author: Aarti
description: I am very surprised. 
---

<!--more-->

It is almost after two years that I am going to leave for India in a week. 
What is surprising for me is the level of excitement I feel for visiting India. 

I mean I am a happy kid irrespective of the place I am put in so long there are 
trees, water, books and music I'm good to go. 
But the interesting bit about this is that I really really want to go to India 
at this point in my life. 

I mean sure Vancouver is much cleaner than Mumbai but despite that I'd chose Mumbai 
over Vancouver a 100 times if given a choice. 
I think a pandemic is a very good way of spending time with family and family home
where I will not have to focus much on the household chores. 
It makes me very happy because my full intent for my vaccations is to sit back 
chill, code, read and write at my own leisure. 
There is no need to concern myself with anything else, I mean this is literally 
life. 

What more can I want from it so long I am getting to do what I want in my own time 
at my own pace?
This is absolute bliss for me and god I love it. 

Another fun bit is that I will be meeting the loves of my life after almost 2 years 
and some even 3 years. 
And the best bit... cat. 

Living in different countries offers so much perspective and insights into the world. 
It helps one understand that there is nothing concretely deemed right or wrong. 

When I had moved from India to Vancouver, I never really felt out of place as I had 
thought I would because at the end of the day irrespective of anything the base things 
remain the same. 
I told my mum once that moving to canada is like moving to an extended state of India since
I barely find any difference. 

I think since I was a kid I have been a very open, accepting and obviously a modest human, and 
moving to North America has sort of confirmed those emotions about me for me. 

My general thought process is that looking beyond the actions that we see humans do we are all 
pretty much the same and I am not just saying this because I read this in some philosphy book
(there is a high chance that I must have but... ).

My general suggestion for humans is that at some point in their life one *must* consider 
leaving their comfort zone country and go and live in a different country just so that 
they can understand that *comfort-zone* is not defined by the country or the planet (fine, that was
a little far-fetched) but by who *you* as a person are. 

For me even if I am put in the middle of n * 10,000 unknown people I will be as comfortable as I am 
when I am on my own and this is again something that I really love about myself. 

Hence, going back to India this time is going to be a very fun and interesting experience just because 
of the way I now see things. 
I want to experience India with these new insights and enjoy the heck out of that experience. 

Fin. 

























