---
layout: post
title: What if the fnctionalities of nose and ears were reversed in a human?
date:   2021-03-27
categories:
tags: Life, Experience, Deep thoughts
author: Aarti
description: It is an important question. 

---

<!--more-->

Today I was sitting on my couch (for those following my blog my dear fans already know what I do on that couch, 
for those that don't I usually meditate, cry, eat, drink and occassionally sleep on it) when I had a very random 
thought, what if I could breathe through my ears and hear through my nose, would that change... anything?

Well, usually to answer such profound questions, a lot of background knowledge and research is required. 

I think some concerns that arise are:
    Q1. How would I use my my big headphones through my nose?
    Q2. When I breath in and out how would my two ears coordinate, would they both breath in and out together, or
    function in some coordination or would be entirely independent of each other?
    Q3. My biggest concern is: How would I do my breathing excercises during practicing yoga?

Answer: I think overall it would be fine so long there are some internal mechanisms that connect correct things to 
correct things. 
There will be some initial discomfort that humans might experience due to this change but it is entirely doable and 
adaptable in a while. 

Are there any specific advantages or disadvantages of doing so?
There are some materialistic things that come to my mind but I find them uninteresting. 


Final verdict: I am not satisfied with my answers because I feel I do not possess enough knowledge 
to answer or discuss about this question properly. 

Apologies friends that I could not impart much useful lessons here. 
But still

Final lesson: Not all questions are worth spending time on. 

Fin. 


















